dear shareholders : last year at this time , i shared my enthusiasm and optimism for amazon ’ s future . today , i have even more . the reasons are many , but start with the progress we ’ ve made in our financial results and customer experiences , and extend to our continued innovation and the remarkable opportunities in front of us . in 2023 , amazon ’ s total revenue grew 12 % year-over-year ( “ yoy ” ) from $ 514b to $ 575b . by segment , north america revenue increased 12 % yoy from $ 316b to $ 353b , international revenue grew 11 % yoy from $ 118b to $ 131b , and aws revenue increased 13 % yoy from $ 80b to $ 91b . further , amazon ’ s operating income and free cash flow ( “ fcf ” ) dramatically improved . operating income in 2023 improved 201 % yoy from $ 12.2b ( an operating margin of 2.4 % ) to $ 36.9b ( an operating margin of 6.4 % ) . trailing twelve month fcf adjusted for equipment finance leases improved from- $ 12.8b in 2022 to $ 35.5b ( up $ 48.3b ) . while we ’ ve made meaningful progress on our financial measures , what we ’ re most pleased about is the continued customer experience improvements across our businesses . in our stores business , customers have enthusiastically responded to our relentless focus on selection , price , and convenience . we continue to have the broadest retail selection , with hundreds of millions of products available , tens of millions added last year alone , and several premium brands starting to list on amazon ( e.g . coach , victoria ’ s secret , pit viper , martha stewart , clinique , lancôme , and urban decay ) . being sharp on price is always important , but particularly in an uncertain economy , where customers are careful about howmuchthey ’ respending.asaresult , inq42023 , wekickedoff theholidayseasonwithprime big deal days , an exclusive event for prime members to provide an early start on holiday shopping . this wasfollowedbyourextendedblackfridayandcybermondayholidayshoppingevent , opentoallcustomers , that became our largest revenue event ever . for all of 2023 , customers saved nearly $ 24b across millions of deals and coupons , almost 70 % more than the prior year . wealso continue to improve delivery speeds , breaking multiple company records . in 2023 , amazon delivered at the fastest speeds ever to prime members , with more than 7 billion items arriving same or next day , including more than 4 billion in the u.s. and more than 2 billion in europe . in the u.s. , this result is the combination of two things . one is the benefit of regionalization , where we re-architected the network to store items closer to customers . the other is the expansion of same-day facilities , where in 2023 , we increased the number of items delivered same day or overnight by nearly 70 % yoy . as we get items to customers this fast , customers choose amazon to fulfill their shopping needs more frequently , and we can see the results in various areas including how fast our everyday essentials business is growing ( over 20 % yoy in q4 2023 ) . our regionalization efforts have also trimmed transportation distances , helping lower our cost to serve . in 2023 , for the first time since 2018 , we reduced our cost to serve on a per unit basis globally . in the u.s. alone , cost to serve was down by more than $ 0.45 per unit yoy . decreasing cost to serve allows us both to invest in speed improvements and afford adding more selection at lower average selling prices ( “ asps ” ) . more selection at lower prices puts us in consideration for more purchases . as welook toward 2024 ( and beyond ) , we ’ re not done lowering our cost to serve . we ’ ve challenged every closely held belief in our fulfillment network , and reevaluated every part of it , and found several areas where webelieve we canlowercosts even further while also delivering faster for customers . our inbound fulfillment architecture and resulting inventory placement are areas of focus in 2024 , and we have optimism there ’ s more upside for us . internationally , we like the trajectory of our established countries , and see meaningful progress in our emerging geographies ( e.g . india , brazil , australia , mexico , middle east , africa , etc . ) as they continue to expand selection and features , and move toward profitability ( in q4 2023 , mexico became our latest international stores locale to turn profitable ) . we have high conviction that these new geographies will continue to grow and be profitable in the long run . alongside our stores business , amazon ’ s advertising progress remains strong , growing 24 % yoy from $ 38b in 2022 to $ 47b in 2023 , primarily driven by our sponsored ads . we ’ ve added sponsored tv to this offering , a self-service solution for brands to create campaigns that can appear on up to 30+ streaming tvservices , including amazon freevee and twitch , and have no minimum spend . recently , we ’ ve expanded our streaming tv advertising by introducing ads into prime video shows and movies , where brands can reach over 200 million monthly viewers in our most popular entertainment offerings , across hit movies and shows , award-winning amazon mgm originals , and live sports like thursday night football . streaming tvadvertising is growing quickly and off to a strong start . shifting to aws , we started 2023 seeing substantial cost optimization , with most companies trying to save moneyin anuncertain economy . much of this optimization was catalyzed by aws helping customers use the cloud more efficiently and leverage more powerful , price-performant aws capabilities like graviton chips ( our generalized cpu chips that provide ~40 % better price-performance than other leading x86 processors ) , s3 intelligent tiering ( a storage class that uses ai to detect objects accessed less frequently and store them in less expensive storage layers ) , and savings plans ( which give customers lower prices in exchange for longer commitments ) . this work diminished short-term revenue , but was best for customers , much appreciated , and should bode well for customers and aws longer-term . by the end of 2023 , we saw cost optimization attenuating , new deals accelerating , customers renewing at larger commitments over longer time periods , and migrations growing again . the past year was also a significant delivery year for aws . we announced our next generation of generalized cpuchips ( graviton4 ) , which provides up to 30 % better compute performance and 75 % more memory bandwidth than its already-leading predecessor ( graviton3 ) . we also announced aws trainium2 chips , which will deliver up to four times faster machine learning training for generative ai applications and three times more memory capacity than trainium1 . we continued expanding our aws infrastructure footprint , now offering 105 availability zones within 33 geographic regions globally , with six new regions coming ( malaysia , mexico , new zealand , the kingdom of saudi arabia , thailand , and a second german region in berlin ) . in generative ai ( “ genai ” ) , we added dozens of features to amazon sagemaker to make it easier for developers to build new foundation models ( “ fms ” ) . we invented and delivered a new service ( amazon bedrock ) that lets companies leverage existing fms to build genai applications . and , we launched the most capable coding assistant around in amazon q. customers are excited about these capabilities , and we ’ re seeing significant traction in our genai offerings . ( more on how we ’ re approaching genai and why we believe we ’ ll be successful later in the letter . ) we ’ re also making progress on many of our newer business investments that have the potential to be important to customers and amazon long-term . touching on two of them : wehave increasing conviction that prime video can be a large and profitable business on its own . this confidence is buoyed by the continued development of compelling , exclusive content ( e.g . thursday night football , lord of therings , reacher , theboys , citadel , roadhouse , etc . ) , primevideocustomers ’ engagement with this content , growth in our marketplace programs ( through our third-party channels program , as well as the broad selection of shows and movies customers rent or buy ) , and the addition of advertising in prime video . in october , we hit a major milestone in our journey to commercialize project kuiper when we launched two end-to-end prototype satellites into space , and successfully validated all key systems and sub-systems— rare in an initial launch like this . kuiper is our low earth orbit satellite initiative that aims to provide broadband connectivity to the 400-500 million households who don ’ t have it today ( as well as governments andenterprises seeking better connectivity and performance in moreremoteareas ) , andisaverylargerevenue opportunity for amazon . we ’ re on track to launch our first production satellites in 2024. we ’ ve still got a long way to go , but are encouraged by our progress . overall , 2023 was a strong year , and i ’ m grateful to our collective teams who delivered on behalf of customers . these results represent a lot of invention , collaboration , discipline , execution , and reimagination across amazon . yet , i think every one of us at amazon believes that we have a long way to go , in every one of our businesses , before we exhaust how we can make customers ’ lives better and easier , and there is considerable upside in each of the businesses in which we ’ re investing . === in my annual letter over the last three years , i ’ ve tried to give shareholders more insight into how we ’ re thinking about the company , the businesses we ’ re pursuing , our future opportunities , and what makes us tick . we operate in a diverse number of market segments , but what ties amazon together is our joint mission to make customers ’ lives better and easier every day . this is true across every customer segment we serve ( consumers , sellers , brands , developers , enterprises , and creators ) . at our best , we ’ re not just customer obsessed , but also inventive , thinking several years out , learning like crazy , scrappy , delivering quickly , and operating like the world ’ s biggest start-up . wespend enormous energy thinking about how to empower builders , inside and outside of our company . wecharacterize builders as people who like to invent . they like to dissect a customer experience , assess what ’ s wrong with it , and reinvent it . builders tend not to be satisfied until the customer experience is perfect . this doesn ’ t hinder them from delivering improvements along the way , but it drives them to keep tinkering and iterating continually . while unafraid to invent from scratch , they have no hesitation about using high-quality , scalable , cost-effective components from others . what matters to builders is having the right tools to keep rapidly improving customer experiences . thebest wayweknowhowtodothisisbybuildingprimitive services . think of them as discrete , foundational building blocks that builders can weave together in whatever combination they desire . here ’ s how we described primitives in our 2003 aws vision document : “ primitives are the raw parts or the most foundational-level building blocks for software developers . they ’ re indivisible ( if they can be functionally split into two they must ) and they do one thing really well . they ’ re meant to be used together rather than as solutions in and of themselves . and , we ’ ll build them for maximum developer flexibility . we won ’ t put a bunch of constraints on primitives to guard against developers hurting themselves . rather , we ’ ll optimize for developer freedom and innovation. ” of course , this concept of primitives can be applied to more than software development , but they ’ re especially relevant in technology . and , over the last 20 years , primitives have been at the heart of how we ’ ve innovated quickly . one of the many advantages to thinking in primitives is speed . let me give you two counter examples that illustrate this point . first , we built a successful owned-inventory retail business in the early years at amazon where we bought all our products from publishers , manufacturers , and distributors , stored them in our warehouses , and shipped them ourselves . over time , we realized we could add broader selection and lower prices by allowing third-party sellers to list their offerings next to our own on our highly trafficked search and product detail pages . we ’ d built several core retail services ( e.g . payments , search , ordering , browse , item management ) that made trying different marketplace concepts simpler than if we didn ’ t have those components . a good set of primitives ? not really . it turns out that these core components were too jumbled together and not partitioned right . we learned this the hard way when we partnered with companies like target in our merchant.com business in the early 2000s . the concept was that target.com would use amazon ’ s ecommerce components as the backbone of its website , and then customize however they wished . to enable this arrangement , we had to deliver those components as separable capabilities through application programming interfaces ( “ apis ” ) . this decoupling was far more difficult than anticipated because we ’ d built so many dependencies between these services as amazon grew so quickly the first few years . this coupling was further highlighted by a heavyweight mechanism we used to operate called “ npi. ” any new initiative requiring work from multiple internal teams had to be reviewed by this npi cabal where each team would communicate how many people-weeks their work would take . this bottleneck constrained what we accomplished , frustrated the heck out of us , and inspired us to eradicate it by refactoring these ecommerce components into true primitive services with well-documented , stable apis that enabled our builders to use each other ’ s services without any coordination tax . in the middle of the target and npi challenges , we were contemplating building a new set of infrastructure technology services that would allow both amazon to move more quickly and external developers to build anything they imagined . this set of services became known as aws , and the above experiences convinced us that we should build a set of primitive services that could be composed together how anybody saw fit . at that time , most technology offerings were very feature-rich , and tried to solve multiple jobs simultaneously . as a result , they often didn ’ t do any one job that well . our awsprimitive services were designed from the start to be different . they offered important , highly flexible , but focused functionality . for instance , our first major primitive was amazon simple storage service ( “ s3 ” ) in march 2006 that aimed to provide highly secure object storage , at very high durability and availability , at internet scale , and very low cost . in other words , be stellar at object storage . when we launched s3 , developers were excited , and a bit mystified . it was a very useful primitive service , but they wondered , why just object storage ? when we launched amazon elastic compute cloud ( “ ec2 ” ) in august 2006 and amazon simpledb in 2007 , people realized we were building a set of primitive infrastructure services that would allow them to build anything they could imagine , much faster , more cost-effectively , and without having to manage or lay out capital upfront for the datacenter or hardware . as aws unveiled these building blocks over time ( we now have over 240 at builders ’ disposal—meaningfully more than any other provider ) , whole companies sprang upquickly on top of aws ( e.g.airbnb , dropbox , instagram , pinterest , stripe , etc . ) , industries reinvented themselves on aws ( e.g . streaming with netflix , disney+ , hulu , max , fox , paramount ) , and even critical government agencies switched to aws ( e.g . cia , along with several other u.s. intelligence agencies ) . but , one of the lesser-recognized beneficiaries was amazon ’ s own consumer businesses , which innovated at dramatic speed across retail , advertising , devices ( e.g . alexa and firetv ) , prime video and music , amazon go , drones , and many other endeavors by leveraging the speed with which awslet them build . primitives , done well , rapidly accelerate builders ’ ability to innovate . so , how do you build the right set of primitives ? pursuing primitives is not a guarantee of success . there are many you could build , and even more ways to combine them . but , a good compass is to pick real customer problems you ’ re trying to solve . our logistics primitives are an instructive example . in amazon ’ s early years , we built core capabilities around warehousing items , and then picking , packing , and shipping them quickly and reliably to customers . as weadded third-party sellers to our marketplace , they frequently requested being able to use these same logistics capabilities . because we ’ d built this initial set of logistics primitives , we were able to introduce fulfillment by amazon ( “ fba ” ) in 2006 , allowing sellers to use amazon ’ s fulfillment network to store items , and then have us pick , pack , and ship them to customers , with the bonus of these products being available for fast , prime delivery . this service has saved sellers substantial time and money ( typically about 70 % lessexpensive than doingthemselves ) , and remains oneof ourmostpopularservices.asmoremerchants began to operate their own direct-to-consumer ( “ dtc ” ) websites , many yearned to still use our fulfillment capabilities , while also accessing our payments and identity primitives to drive higher order conversion on their own websites ( as prime members have already shared this payment and identity information with amazon ) . a couple years ago , we launched buy with prime to address this customer need . prime members can check out quickly on dtc websites like they do on amazon , and receive fast prime shipping speeds on buy with prime items—increasing order conversion for merchants by ~25 % vs. their default experience . as our stores business has grown substantially , and our supply chain become more complex , we ’ ve had to develop aslewof capabilities in order to offer customers unmatched selection , at low prices , and with very fast delivery times . we ’ ve become adept at getting products from other countries to the u.s. , clearing customs , andthenshipping to storage facilities . because we don ’ t have enough space in our shipping fulfillment centers to store all the inventory needed to maintain our desired in-stock levels , we ’ ve built a set of lower-cost , upstream warehouses solely optimized for storage ( without sophisticated end-user , pick , pack , and ship functions ) . having these two pools of inventory has prompted us to build algorithms predicting when we ’ ll run out of inventory in our shipping fulfillment centers and automatically replenishing from these upstream warehouses . and , in the last few years , our scale and available alternatives have forced us to build our own last mile delivery capability ( roughly the size of ups ) to affordably serve the number of consumers and sellers wanting to use amazon . we ’ ve solved these customer needs by building additional fulfillment primitives that both serve amazon consumers better and address external sellers ’ increasingly complex ecommerce activities . for instance , for sellers needing help importing products , we offer a global mile service that leverages our expertise here . to ship inventory from the border ( or anywhere domestically ) to our storage facilities , we enable sellers to use either our first-party amazon freight service or third-party freight partners via our partnered carrier program . to store more inventory at lower cost to ensure higher in-stock rates and shorter delivery times , we ’ ve opened our upstream amazon warehousing and distribution facilities to sellers ( along with automated replenishment to our shipping fulfillment centers when needed ) . for those wanting to manage their own shipping , we ’ ve started allowing customers to use our last mile delivery network to deliver packages to their end-customers in a service called amazon shipping . and , for sellers who wish to use our fulfillment network as a central place to store inventory and ship items to customers regardless of where they ordered , we have a multi-channel fulfillment service . these are all primitives that we ’ ve exposed to sellers . building in primitives meaningfully expands your degrees of freedom . you can keep your primitives to yourself and build compelling features and capabilities on top of them to allow your customers and business to reap the benefits of rapid innovation . you can offer primitives to external customers as paid services ( as wehavewithawsandourmorerecentlogisticsofferings ) .or , youcancomposetheseprimitivesintoexternal , paid applications as we have with fba , buy with prime , or supply chain by amazon ( a recently released logistics service that integrates several of our logistics primitives ) . but , you ’ ve got options . you ’ re only constrained by the primitives you ’ ve built and your imagination . take the new , same-day fulfillment facilities in our stores business . they ’ re located in the largest metro areas around the u.s. ( we currently have 58 ) , house our top-moving 100,000 skus ( but also cover millions of other skus that can be injected from nearby fulfillment centers into these same-day facilities ) , and streamline the time required to go from picking a customer ’ s order to being ready to ship to as little as 11 minutes . these facilities also constitute our lowest cost to serve in the network . the experience has been so positive for customers that we ’ re planning to double the number of these facilities . but , how else might we use this capability if we think of it as a core building block ? we have a very large and growing grocery business in organic grocery ( with whole foods market ) and non-perishable goods ( e.g . consumables , canned goods , health and beauty products , etc. ) . we ’ ve been working hard on building a mass , physical store offering ( amazon fresh ) that offers a great perishable experience ; however , what if we used our same-day facilities to enable customers to easily add milk , eggs , or other perishable items to any amazon order and get same day ? it might change how people think of splitting up their weekly grocery shopping , and make perishable shopping as convenient as non-perishable shopping already is . or , take a service that some people have questioned , but that ’ s making substantial progress and we think of as a very valuable future primitive capability—our delivery drones ( called prime air ) . drones will eventually allow us to deliver packages to customers in less than an hour . it won ’ t start off being available for all sizes of packages and in all locations , but we believe it ’ ll be pervasive over time . think about how the experience of ordering perishable items changes with sub-one-hour delivery ? the same is true for amazon pharmacy . need throat lozenges , advil , an antibiotic , or some other medication ? same-day facilities already deliver many of these items within hours , and that will only get shorter as we launch prime air more expansively . highly flexible building blocks can be composed across businesses and in new combinations that change what ’ s possible for customers . being intentional about building primitives requires patience . releasing the first couple primitive services can sometimes feel random to customers ( or the public at large ) before we ’ ve unveiled how these building blocks come together . i ’ ve mentioned aws and s3 as an example , but our health offering is another . in the last 10 years , we ’ ve tried several health experiments across various teams—but they were not driven by our primitives approach . this changed in 2022 when we applied our primitives thinking to the enormous global healthcare problem and opportunity . we ’ ve now created several important building blocks to help transform the customer health experience : acute care ( via amazon clinic ) , primary care ( via one medical ) , and a pharmacy service to buy whatever medication a patient may need . because of our growing success , amazon customers are now asking us to help them with all kinds of wellness and nutrition opportunities—which can be partially unlocked with some of our existing grocery building blocks , including whole foods market or amazon fresh . as abuilder , it ’ s hard to wait for these building blocks to be built versus just combining a bunch of components together to solve a specific problem . the latter can be faster , but almost always slows you down in the future . we ’ ve seen this temptation in our robotics efforts in our fulfillment network . there are dozens of processes we seek to automate to improve safety , productivity , and cost . some of the biggest opportunities require invention in domains such as storage automation , manipulation , sortation , mobility of large cagesacrosslongdistances , andautomaticidentification of items . manyteamswouldskiprighttothe complex solution , baking in “ just enough ” of these disciplines to make a concerted solution work , but which doesn ’ t solve much more , can ’ t easily be evolved as new requirements emerge , and that can ’ t be reused for other initiatives needing many of the same components . however , when you think in primitives , like our robotics team does , you prioritize the building blocks , picking important initiatives that can benefit from each of these primitives , but which build the tool chest to compose more freely ( and quickly ) for future and complex needs . our robotics team has built primitives in each of the above domains that will be lynchpins in our next set of automation , which includes multi-floor storage , trailer loading and unloading , large pallet mobility , and more flexible sortation across our outbound processes ( including in vehicles ) . the team is also building a set of foundation ai models to better identify products in complex environments , optimize the movement of our growing robotic fleet , and better manage the bottlenecks in our facilities . sometimes , people ask us “ what ’ s your next pillar ? you have marketplace , prime , and aws , what ’ s next ? ” this , of course , is a thought-provoking question . however , a question people never ask , and might be even more interesting is what ’ s the next set of primitives you ’ re building that enables breakthrough customer experiences ? if you asked me today , i ’ d lead with generative ai ( “ genai ” ) . muchof the early public attention has focused on genai applications , with the remarkable 2022 launch of chatgpt . but , to our “ primitive ” way of thinking , there are three distinct layers in the genai stack , each of which is gigantic , and each of which we ’ re deeply investing . the bottom layer is for developers and companies wanting to build foundation models ( “ fms ” ) . the primary primitives are the compute required to train models and generate inferences ( or predictions ) , and the software that makes it easier to build these models . starting with compute , the key is the chip inside it . to date , virtually all the leading fms have been trained on nvidia chips , and we continue to offer the broadest collection of nvidia instances of any provider . that said , supply has been scarce and cost remains an issue as customers scale their models and applications . customers have asked us to push the envelope on price-performance for ai chips , just as we have with graviton for generalized cpu chips . as a result , we ’ ve built custom ai training chips ( named trainium ) and inference chips ( named inferentia ) . in 2023 , we announced second versions of our trainium and inferentia chips , which are both meaningfully more price-performant than their first versions and other alternatives . this past fall , leading fm-maker , anthropic , announced it would use trainium and inferentia to build , train , and deploy its future fms . we already have several customers using our ai chips , including anthropic , airbnb , hugging face , qualtrics , ricoh , and snap . customers building their own fm must tackle several challenges in getting a model into production . getting data organized and fine-tuned , building scalable and efficient training infrastructure , and then deploying models at scale in a low latency , cost-efficient manner is hard . it ’ s why we ’ ve built amazon sagemaker , a managed , end-to-end service that ’ s been a game changer for developers in preparing their data for ai , managing experiments , training models faster ( e.g . perplexity ai trains models 40 % faster in sagemaker ) , loweringinferencelatency ( e.g . workdayhasreducedinferencelatencyby80 % withsagemaker ) , and improving developer productivity ( e.g . natwest reduced its time-to-value for ai from 12-18 months to under seven months using sagemaker ) . the middle layer is for customers seeking to leverage an existing fm , customize it with their own data , and leverage a leading cloud provider ’ s security and features to build a genai application—all as a managed service . amazon bedrock invented this layer and provides customers with the easiest way to build and scale genaiapplications with the broadest selection of first- and third-party fms , as well as leading ease-of-use capabilities that allow genai builders to get higher quality model outputs more quickly . bedrock is off to a very strong start with tens of thousands of active customers after just a few months . the team continues to iterate rapidly on bedrock , recently delivering guardrails ( to safeguard what questions applications will answer ) , knowledge bases ( to expand models ’ knowledge base with retrieval augmented generation—or rag—andreal-time queries ) , agents ( to complete multi-step tasks ) , and fine-tuning ( to keep teaching and refining models ) , all of which improve customers ’ application quality . we also just added new models from anthropic ( their newly-released claude 3 is the best performing large language model in the world ) , meta ( with llama 2 ) , mistral , stability ai , cohere , and our own amazon titan family of fms . what customers have learned at this early stage of genai is that there ’ s meaningful iteration required to build a production genai application with the requisite enterprise quality at the cost and latency needed . customers don ’ t want only one model . they want access to various models and model sizes for different types of applications . customers want a service that makes this experimenting and iterating simple , and this is what bedrock does , which is why customers are so excited about it . customers using bedrock already include adp , amdocs , bridgewater associates , broadridge , clariant , dana-farber cancer institute , delta air lines , druva , genesys , genomics england , godaddy , intuit , kt , lonely planet , lexisnexis , netsmart , perplexity ai , pfizer , pga tour , ricoh , rocket companies , and siemens . thetoplayer of this stack is the application layer . we ’ re building a substantial number of genai applications across every amazonconsumerbusiness.theserangefromrufus ( ournew , ai-poweredshoppingassistant ) , to an even more intelligent and capable alexa , to advertising capabilities ( making it simple with natural language prompts to generate , customize , and edit high-quality images , advertising copy , and videos ) , to customer and seller service productivity apps , to dozens of others . we ’ re also building several apps in aws , including arguably the most compelling early genai use case—a coding companion . we recently launched amazon q , an expert on aws that writes , debugs , tests , and implements code , while also doing transformations ( like moving from an old version of java to a new one ) , and querying customers ’ various data repositories ( e.g . intranets , wikis , salesforce , amazon s3 , servicenow , slack , atlassian , etc . ) to answer questions , summarize data , carry on coherent conversation , and take action . q is the most capable work assistant available today and evolving fast . while we ’ re building a substantial number of genai applications ourselves , the vast majority will ultimately bebuilt byothercompanies.however , whatwe ’ rebuildinginawsisnotjustacompellingapporfoundation model . these aws services , at all three layers of the stack , comprise a set of primitives that democratize this next seminal phase of ai , and will empower internal and external builders to transform virtually every customer experience that we know ( and invent altogether new ones as well ) . we ’ re optimistic that much of this world-changing ai will be built on top of aws . ( by the way , don ’ t underestimate the importance of security in genai . customers ’ ai models contain some of their most sensitive data . aws and its partners offer the strongest security capabilities and track record in the world ; and as a result , more and more customers want to run their genai on aws . ) === recently , i was asked a provocative question—how does amazon remain resilient ? while simple in its wording , it ’ s profound because it gets to the heart of our success to date as well as for the future . the answer lies in our discipline around deeply held principles : 1/ hiring builders who are motivated to continually improve and expand what ’ s possible ; 2/ solving real customer challenges , rather than what we think may be interesting technology ; 3/ building in primitives so that we can innovate and experiment at the highest rate ; 4/ not wasting time trying to fight gravity ( spoiler alert : you always lose ) —when we discover technology that enables better customer experiences , we embrace it ; 5/ accepting and learning from failed experiments— actually becoming more energized to try again , with new knowledge to employ . today , we continue to operate in times of unprecedented change that come with unusual opportunities for growth across the areas in which we operate . for instance , while we have a nearly $ 500b consumer business , about 80 % of the worldwide retail market segment still resides in physical stores . similarly , with a cloud computing business at nearly a $ 100b revenue run rate , more than 85 % of the global it spend is still on-premises . these businesses will keep shifting online and into the cloud . in media and advertising , content will continue to migrate from linear formats to streaming . globally , hundreds of millions of people who don ’ t have adequate broadband access will gain that connectivity in the next few years . last but certainly not least , generative ai may be the largest technology transformation since the cloud ( which itself , is still in the early stages ) , and perhaps since the internet . unlike the mass modernization of on premises infrastructure to the cloud , where there ’ s work required to migrate , this genai revolution will be built from the start on top of the cloud . the amount of societal and business benefit from the solutions that will be possible will astound us all . there has never been a time in amazon ’ s history where we ’ ve felt there is so much opportunity to make our customers ’ lives better and easier . we ’ re incredibly excited about what ’ s possible , focused on inventing the future , and look forward to working together to make it so .